# Predicting-heart-disease
## Problem statement
World Health Organization has estimated 12 million deaths occur worldwide, every year due to Heart diseases. Half the deaths in the United States and other developed countries are due to cardio vascular diseases. The early prognosis of cardiovascular diseases can aid in making decisions on lifestyle changes in high risk patients and in turn reduce the complications. This research intends to pinpoint the most relevant/risk factors of heart disease as well as predict the overall risk using logistic regression. Using logistic regression I will be able to determine whether a person run the risk of having a heart disease. The classification goal is to predict whether the patient has 10years risk of future coronary heart disease.
## Motivation
WHO estimated that more than 12million people die from heart diseases each year. 12million is a very large number and there's a need to reduce this number to the minimum. Developing a classification model is essential such that one will be able to determine who runs a risk of a heart disease to take preventive measures. 
## Business goal
I am required to use logistic regression to predict whether a patient has 10years risk of future coronary heart disease or not. I will make use of binary logistic regression in which target variable has only two possible outcomes such as heart disease or no heart disease. Hospitals and Doctors may use this model to predict which patient is at risk and preventive measures to be taken
## Data Source
The dataset is publically available on the Kaggle website, and it is from an ongoing cardiovascular study on residents of the town of Framingham, Massachusetts. The classification goal is to predict whether the patient has 10-year risk of future coronary heart disease (CHD).
